Welcome back.
We've covered injections third party libraries.
Looks like the next stop on the list is logging and logging is once again another important topic.
I'm going to give you a hint.
All of these are important but logging can be quite tricky.
There's no clear right and wrong way to do things.
When it comes to logging.
But let's talk about what it is logging is all about.
Getting information from your system let's say your machine your server as to what is happening.
You want to gather information about how users are using your service.
Your web site your Perhaps rest API so that if something goes wrong or you see something suspicious
you're able to use logging and whatever we've logged to find the issue fix the bog or prevent any attacks.
And one of the biggest security issues is something called insufficient logging insufficient logging
and monitoring coupled with missing or ineffective logging allows attackers to attack systems while
not being detected so that they can tamper or extract or destroy data.
The interesting thing is that if you look at most breaches that have happened over history studies show
that a time to detect a breach when something has gone awry and perhaps a bad person has entered your
system your database and got an information the time that it takes to actually detected is around 200
days.
And it's typically detected by external parties such as security teams rather than internal monitoring.
So having good logging means that you're able to detect issues quickly and prevent any bad things that
might be happening with your product.
So how can we do this.
We want to have proper logging set up on our product and the two tools that I really enjoy with node
is Winston and Morgan.
So let's see how they work.
All right.
So let's have some logging into our server.
I have two packages that I really really like.
When it comes to logging and there's a ton of options out there.
The first one I'm going to show you is one called Morgan.
And as you can see it's an HGP request logger middleware for note and it's very easy to install.
We can just NPM install it and then require it as we have it here.
So let's do that.
I'm going to run MTM install Morgan and at the top over here I'm going to just Konst Morgan and require
it.
Since we just installed
So with Morgan we can use it as a middleware again for express if you want to use a middleware you'd
use something like apt but use just like we have here with body parser dodgiest Jaison which by the
way allows us to or to receive Jaison data from the requested body as you can see here.
So with Morgan I can say Morgan
and then give it some options let's say tiny.
So if we scroll down through here we see that there's options that we can give more.
What kind of logging we should have.
So with tiny now that we have this middleware let's save Ron NPM start our app is listening to port
and let's open up our up and say check submit.
All right.
Going back here I see that I get options.
The point secret got a status of 200 and it took 3.7 Meli seconds.
We got some logging of what happened with the request.
Now here's a little side note that we need to fix before we can actually test this.
You see that this is options instead of the post request that we're expecting.
Well if I open up the console here I'll get an error which we're going to talk about in an upcoming
security video about course.
So for now we're going to leave that the way it is.
We're going to fix this problem and come back to it in an upcoming video so don't worry the way we fix
this is we install NPM install a package called core's
and we're going to again use that as a nother middleware.
So Konst course equals require
of course.
And once again we can say app use cores like this.
So let's say that let's run NPM start again.
And go back to our app.
We're going to try that one more time.
Hit check or let's change the two.
Hello.
Submit and we go back and look at that.
We have a post request that hit the endpoint secret.
We return status of 200 and you can see the times here as well.
Very cool.
All right so Morgan has this logging that we get.
OK.
We can do another one that I like which is combined and I save here.
Go back.
Type something like by Samit and look at that.
We get a lot more information.
I get a post request I see what kind of HTP protocol I used.
I looked at what kind of device the request came from.
And a ton of more information.
So just by having Morgan we have this information that for example if we had a server that was an API
we can now monitor and if we knew that at 4:00 p.m. Something might have happened we can go back in
time and see.
At this time something happened.
Why did less users send post requests or log into our Web site or or any other metric they may need.
Remember the more information you have the better you can be informed about what is happening.
So Morgan is pretty nice.
Let's look at another one.
The next one I want to introduce to you is called Winston.
We're going to NPM install Winston
and we're going to grab it like this.
So let me close the server run and PM install Winston and while that's installing.
Let's go to the Winston documentation here.
And you see that it's a logger for just about everything.
Yeah you can think of Winston as the console log that we have except it comes with a ton of more features
that you can use and he can read up all about it.
It's really really good.
And I've used this in production and I highly recommend it.
See with console log you can only do a few things.
It has limitation with Winsted you have the power to do a lot of interesting things.
So let's change this console log to Winston because now we're able to use Winston and see what kind
of log we get from user input.
We want to save this run NPM start
let's go back to our app and say check check
go back
we get nothing logged because with Winsted and we have to give with some parameters so the first says
what kind of logging.
And the second is the or the log that we want.
So we try again or let's say first we try again
and there you go ampho check check and we can do some really cool things.
For example if there is some sort of an error we can have Winston respond with let's move this down
here.
And say this is this is good if we're getting the user and put.
And if it airs out then we're going to we're going to do something different.
We're going to log out on air or we can do just short form error here and say that
this guy is messing with us.
So if I say that go back hit submit again go back.
I see that ampho user input was check check.
That's great.
If I mess something up let's say that we send a batch request and we don't send the user and put.
So let's just say that on the front end I'm going to send a user and put with an exclamation mark where
I can do that with one and one to save go back let's refresh this and we'll say how about now submit
and we'll get that air.
This guy is messing with us.
So you see over here how with Winston we can get some really really good logging so that we can go because
these will be locked somewhere.
We can go back in time and say at 4:00 p.m. our service shut down or we experience some issues we can
go back and see what happened this time and we are able to get hints about maybe some of the inputs
that users have sent or other things.
And you can see here that logging is up to you what information you want to keep what information you
want to save is completely up to you.
The idea is that you want to have good information but you're not storing any any personal information
in your logs and most definitely you're not returning any logging input input to the client because
if we send something let's say a user tries to sign in and if we sent with an error or we return instead
of a status saying user already exists.
Well if we respond to that and we send that to the front and now I'm giving information away about my
system I'm letting the person on the Web site say oh I just found a user that might be in a database
maybe I can try logging in with them and use Eskew all injection to see if I can get their information.
So here's the thing with logging it's very tricky.
You want to log information as much as you can so you can get this knowledge about how your system is
working but you also want to be careful to keep this information to only the levels that should have
access to see this.
So you never want to log out system errors in a front end on console because then anybody in the world
can see it.
Finally I want to end off with one thing.
There's a major issue with logging in that we're relying on logs for security purposes but logs are
only going to tell us of a malicious event once it's already happened.
And if we only periodically monitor our logs then we're going to miss whatever information was important
at the time anyway.
And then there's also the issue of how much data do we want to actually record if we have a really busy
service.
Are locks files are going to be enormous because I can just save all these logs in a text file and keep
them somewhere.
And the more information we have the harder it is to find data that we might be looking for anyway.
Logging is a complex topic but you want to just be thinking about this.
What information do you need so that you have a secure application you can detect when security issues
arise.
But also keep blogging away from clients or users because you don't want to reveal any information about
your system.
Any small information might be used against your.
All right.
I think my head hurts.
There was a lot of information but I hope you have found this useful and I'll see you in the next one.
But by.